# CSD228-HW3 User Database
## Description
In this exercise we are going to create an in-memory repository of "User" and "UserProfile" objects in a list based database which allows us to create a user and their profile, search for a user, update their profile, and delete them completely.

## Components
The application consists of 3 components, the `User` class which defines the user, the `UserProfile` class which contains a user's profile detail, and the `UserDatabase` which consists of a list of users. These files can be found under the "Database" directory.

## Details of each class
### User
The user class consists of 3 public fields, id, Username, and Password. These properties should correctly use the `get` and `init` methods. The id should be autogenerated and cannot be changed later. This class and its method overrides is provided to you.

Properties:
  * id: `int`
  * Username: `string`
  * Password: `string`
    
### UserProfile
This class contains the detailed information about a user. The fields are, Id, UserId, FirstName, LastName, DOB. The id should be autogenerated and cannot be changed later. Similar to the `User` class, the fields need to be set by the `get` and `init` methods. This class and its properties has been provided to you.

Properties:
  * Id: `int`
  * UserId: `int`
  * FirstName: `string`
  * LastName: `string` 
  * DOB: `string`

Override the `ToString` and `Equals` method similar to what's in the `User` class.

### UserDatabase
This class consists of a `List` of Users and a `List` of UserProfiles. The database will provide the CRUD (Create, Read, Update, and Delete) operations to add, search for, update, and delete a user from the list it maintains. The client can create an instance of `UserDatabase` and add  users and profiles to it. It can also, retrieve, update, and delete the data ONLY if the requester can provide the correct username and password. The example later will show how the whole process should work.
The fields and methods of `UserDatabase` are listed below.

Properties:
  * Users: `List<User>` - get only
  * UserProfiles: `List<UserProfile>` - get only

Methods:
  * AddUser(`string` username, `string` password): `int` 
  
     returns the added user's id - throws `UserAlreadyExistsException` if a user with the username already exists in the list

  * AddUserProfile(`string` username, `string` password, `string` firstName, `string` lastName, `string` DOB): `int` 
     
      returns the newly added user profile's id - throws `UserProfileAlreadyExistsException` if a user with the user name in the profile exists in the list of user profiles and throws `UserNotFoundException` if the username/password pair don't match with any user in the database.

  * FindUsersWithFirstName(`string`): `List<User>` 
  
      returns a list of users with the first name provided. Returns an empty list if nothing is found

  * FindUsersWithLastName(`string`): `List<User>` 
     
      returns a list of users with last name provided. Empty if nothing found

  * UpdateProfile(`string` username, `string` password, `string` firstName, `string` lastName, `string` DOB) 
    
    updates the users's name and DOB IFF the user with username password pair exist otherwise throws a `UserNotFoundException`. If the UserProfile does not exist
    for that user, `ProfileNotFoundException` is thrown. The ID of the profile increments by one even in the case of update.

  * Delete(`string` username, `string` password) 
  
     deletes a user and its corresponding profile IFF the username-password pair matches a user in the database otherwise it throws a `UserNotFoundException`.

## Immutability

The properties of User and UserProfile can only be set with a constructor or with `init`. This means that the properties look like this:
    
    FirstName {get; init;}

In order to update a profile, the best course of action is to create a new one and delete the existing one.

## Internal ID fields

The id of users and user profiles should auto increment every time a new one is added to the database. Make private variables in the database class to keep track of those. Both IDs should start from 1.

You may add any additional field or private method you need to implement the classes but the interface of the class should remain the same.

## Fail safety

Watchout for method arguments that aren't useful e.g. empty string for username and password. In case of unacceptable input, simply return from the method and don't add any records to the database.

## Usage examples
The following is a simple usage example of the database in the main method.

    UserDatabase db = new UserDatabase();
    db.AddUser("user1", "1234");
    db.AddUserProfile("user1", "1234", "John", "Doe", "1998/01/10");
    db.AddUser("user2", "1234");
    db.AddUserProfile("user1", "1234", "Jane", "Doe", "1997/11/12");

    List<User> allUsers = db.GetAllUsers();
    foreach (User u in allUsers)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(u);
    }

    List<UserProfile> profiles = db.GetAllUserProfiles();
    foreach (UserProfile profile in profiles)
    {
        Console.WriteLine(profile);
    }

    foreach(User u in db.FindUsersWithFirstName("John"))
    {
        Console.WriteLine(u);
    }
    
